The Joe Rogan experience. One it's, these are bad decisions as, as, as, as,
as we look back in history and we look at Iraq in
particular, and we look at, you know, the, the,
the tens of thousands of service members that served in Iraq to include myself.
I don't know if they want to be reminded of that,
that section of our history on a regular basis either.
And so when we have amputees and we have health issues with the burn pits,
that really I think is, is our cause or, uh,
that we need to talk about as our agent orange is, you know,
I think John Stewart just recently brought it up. We're active in, uh,
the hunter seven foundation, which does a lot of research in this,
but there's zero reason why the government is not
funding to the tune of millions,
of dollars of research to figure out what's happening to the service members
with their directly related, you know, lung and health issues from burn pits.
There's zero reason because the only reason is because if they acknowledge that
it's a problem, they're going to have to pay.
For it to explain burn pits to people. Yeah.
Um, it's, uh,
it was essentially a big pet where you would put all of your garbage,
everything, everything. So that's batteries, that's all the plastics,
it's anything and everything that is Ricky glider. Yeah. It's fecal matter.
It's tires. It's anything that is directly associated with,
uh, your living condition in a war that you need to, to get rid of.
And you had shoved it all into a pit,
and then it would burn 24 hours a day, 365 days a year.
Wow. And yes.
And how close is this to where you guys were living? Uh.
In every one of the fire bases I was at, uh,
four and a half years is how much time I have on the ground in Iraq on every one
of my fire bases. There was a burn pit. And.
Not only that, you're going to have young privates out there with sticks,
rolling it over in the smoke with probably some, you know, knitted,
fake mask that they're wearing that they got.
And they're the ones in there actually rotating the trash to burn it through
completely.
So they're completely subjected to that environment from a very long time.
Whose idea was that.
Uh, really smart, really, really smart, uh, you know,
officers and contractors, the same guys that decided that, you know,
the invasion was going to be a really good idea of Iraq.
They're the same people making those types of decisions in the way that,
you know, obviously when,
when we look at this now and we look back on it and we go, that's dumb as.
There was somebody in a series of people at that point in time in 2003 to
2009 and Iraq that were saying, this is a good idea.
And that type of mentality, I think,
is the same type of mentality today that says,
this is a good idea for not for us, not to fund the research,
to figure out what the is going on. So we can do something about,
and when we talk about it, right, or our voices are only so big.
But I think if people knew what was happening with our generation of veterans,
because you know, I'm 43, you're 33, 30, 4, 34.
You've got all these guys that are coming up with strange
cancers, like weird. One of the Jocko's friends and our friends,
he just died of cancer. He's a medal of honor.
Recipient had a strange heart organ cancers kind of
cancer in his back, and he's died six months down the road and what's happening.
And when we talk about the other foundations and people that are diving into
some of this research, it's incredibly underfunded.
They're starting to have this direct connection between the burn pits
themselves and the chemicals that ultimately were exposed to,
or were exposed to.
And a lot of the cancers that guys are coming to me when I say that they're
developing, I.
Guess obviously. Yeah. I mean, it has to be, there's no way. That's.
Good for you. There's no way. And that's in the same camp. Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Right there on the farm, you would.
Have to put, I would, I would take a towel and I would wet it.
And then I would put it down underneath my, my, my,
my door going into this little container or shipping container.
And I would put another one on the top,
just so I could just so I could sleep the rest of the evening because the smoke
was so bad from the burn pits, as it would move in,
you couldn't sleep because you couldn't sleep without coughing.
And it was going, that was every day, depending on your, on your fire base,
it was every day. So it wasn't the fact that, Hey man,
I got all my fingers and toes, right. You know.
I survived seven years.
A counter argument to that would be like, well,
whatever idiots you signed up for it. But if.
That's not an argument, I know someone say that.
But I think that if you're willing to and those people, yeah, exactly.
If you're willing to spend a hundred thousand to a million dollars on a guy or a
gal to train them up, to do a specific job,
because you look at how much it costs to put them through training and school
after school, after school, and then they get out and we're just like have fun,
especially guys and gals, like we're talking tier one units.
I have friends that have done 16, 17, 18 deployments.
And it's an injustice because they're willing to sacrifice their life,
limb and body and eyesight for, you know,
I guess the politicians assembled a war, but then it's, it's,
it's a moral obligation as our society that we have to look out for them when
they come back, it's not happening. It's.
Insane that this is prevalent, that they have these burn pits at every base.
That's insane.
And for the most part, most people don't.
Was this Jamie and Afghanistan, uh,
at its peak more than 400 tons of waste was disposed using burn pits daily.
Jesus Christ. Yeah. But, and then the question is like, what else do you do?
Like San Francisco fog,
one soldier described the smoke as thick as San Francisco fog,
every called it like pollen dust.
The color of smoke could be blue and black or yellow and orange. However,
it was mostly black, everyone inhaled and ingested it,
it was absorbed by their skin.
Which is, which is interesting because, you know,
I think a lot of people that have deployed, if you said, Hey,
we got to get this trash burn. You know, we gotta do it.
Like we signed up for it, we got it.
But then you gotta give them the research and the medical clinicians that
understand this going forward.
And after the fact to actually hopefully not die like.
This from cancer. No, no, no. You got to not do that. No, I agree.
But I'm saying.
But there's no way you would say, Hey,
let's let these guys breathe in this and then take care of them. No,
you should not burn that.
They've got to figure out another way to get rid of it. Agreed. I mean,
but even landfills are terrible. One of the things they're finding out in these,
when they're doing these satellite overviews is that methane like meth.
Like they're trying to find like the largest sources of methane and what's
contributing to greenhouse gases. It's landfills, right? Landfills,
where you take all your food, they pour it into the ground.
They just cover it up with dirt.
And it's just leaking methane into the atmosphere. It's terrible. Like,
I don't know what the solution is,
but the solution is definitely not burn it right where the soldiers are
sleeping. No. And I think that.
Now that as we continue to, to evolve,
hopefully as a society and we look at the way that we deploy service members
overseas, we've at least identified this as a problem.
But the,
the big thing that I see is we have to continue to look at the
problem and fund the research and look at the direct connection between
these types of activities, meaning burn pits. We're,
we're looking at burn pit and I'm saying that's burned pit, but it's also know,
I know Tim, obviously he's been on the podcast. He's SF guy,
w w I'm an SF guy.
But when we look at the long-term effects of we'll call it the special
operations community, because I'm, I'm obviously from that subculture,
but sleep deprivation.
Anti-inflammatories your anti-malarials burn pits, multiple rotations,
PTs.
This is a holistic health issue for the most of these guys returning.
If they don't have direct or visible combat wounds,
they have some type of residual, uh,
they'd been affected by the war in a long-term residual way.
And I think what happens is, as the VA continues to evolve,
at least past these wars, we have to look to look at it as a collective and say,
how do we make turn everybody's attention within the VA system
to directly take care of these guys in a very positive and impactful way.
So we don't have people like Mary dag that get denied a full-time service
giver, a caregiver. How does that stand now? Is it still the way it is right.
Now? That was like five days ago.
I haven't talked to her since I'm actually gonna call her after this.
But yeah. At least give the resources.
And the necessary,
because I'm sure VA as an organization wants to do good and correct to do great
things. I think that when people just say the VA sucks,
it's the wrong way to look at us. It's the way it's,
how do we critically think and solve the problem then put in process and a plan
to go. Here's the resources you need.
So we can fix the issues that are right in front of her face. Couldn't.
Imagine being a VA bean counter,
or being someone who works for a VA bean counter,
who gets the call that you have to like cut the budget by X amount.
So figure out where you're going to S slash these benefits like w and
then you have to look at these people that you're talking to,
either on the phone or through email, you can't even look at them as a human.
You gotta look at them as a number on a ledger. That's crazy. And then.
You have, you know, incredible giving nation that backfills,
that need through, you know, nonprofit organizations. Yeah.
I guess my only intent in that conversation is I think the government needs to
do a much better job of leading the conversation than being towed around by the
entire conversation. They need to get out in front of it.
I have to take responsibility for it. And I think that's the big one,
which is taking responsibility for, you know, war just in general,
and then taking responsibility for the aftereffects of the individual soldiers,
sailors, Marines.
Post-war that just seems to me the thing to do.
And I think most people, if they realize these things were happening,
I think the last time I tried to schedule a VA appointment,
it was going to take me 200 plus days to get in,
to see a physician, you know, about a shoulder injury.
Really. Yeah. 200.
Days to get on the list and I'm going to be special. I'm not,
I'm not missing anything. Right.
But there are a lot of people that have been directly affected by this,
that need care. And now we have the ability, I think,
and based on the current administration to go see a primary care provider
outside of the VA, which I think was a huge step. Uh,
but there's still a lot to do. Right. And there's, you know,
for us having this company and what we're doing with it, you know,
it's a big, it's a big part of the mission of how we run the company,
what we're doing with the company.
So, so the Joe Rogan experience are now free on Spotify. That's right.
They're free from September 1st is December 1st.
They're going to be available everywhere, but after December 1st,
they will only be available on Spotify, but they will be free.
That includes the video. The video will also be there. It'll also be free.
That's all we're asking. Just go download Spotify much. Buh-bye.